Here is a more in-depth explanation of the source code from "main.py"

This project requires the use of three python modules; 'plyer', 'tkinter', and 'time'.

The 'plyer' module is used specifically for the 'notification' function, 
which is allows the notification signifying the end of the timer to be displayed as a desktop notification.

The 'tkinter' module is used for both the 'messagebox' and '*' functions.
'message box' is used to display prompts and message boxes for error messages
 '*' is used to the create the user interface for the application

The 'time' module is used to create a delay in between every second that passes.

Here is the code for mentioned in this section:
from plyer import notification
from tkinter import messagebox
from tkinter import *
import time

The next step in the project is to initialize the window and declare the dimensions.

window = Tk() Assigns the Tkinter class, Tk() to the object named 'window'

window.geometry("300x200") Specifies the length and breadth of the application

window.title("DataFlair - python Countdown timer and notification")

Now we have to define functions for the timer and for placeholders. Placeholders are optional, I put them as 0.


There are three placeholder function to represent hours, minutes, and seconds.
These functions make a widget, when the user inputs numbers the placeholders go away
The 0 is the placeholder character, and 'end' means the end of the placeholder

Here are the placeholder functions...

def h_click(event):
       
       hour_entry.delete(0, 'end')        

def m_click(event):
       
       min_entry.delete(0, 'end')

def s_click(event):         
 
 sec_entry.delete(0, 'end')
 
 
 Now to get into the main timer function
 
The condition that needs to be met is for the user to enter in a time,
once the time is inputed, the function has to combine the sum of the given hours, minutes, and seconds, 
the unit for the timer is seconds, so we have to convert hours (* 3600) and mintues (* 60) to seconds
if the user inputs another type of character there will be an exception and error message. 

Here is the source code used:

def timer():

    try:
        timer_time = int(hour_entry.get()) * 3600 + int(min_entry.get()) * 60 + int(sec_entry.get())

    except:
        messagebox.showerror(message="Enter Valid Time")
